- [Instructor] I've been a professional
software developer for, let's just say awhile,
and there are a handful of solutions
that have been game changers for me personally.
Going from C&C++ to Java,
now portable applications can be written once
and run anywhere without rebuild.
J2EE, to build enterprise solutions
without needing to code the supporting infrastructure.
Hibernate eliminated manually mapping logical
objects to physical databases.
Asynchronous JavaScript and XML, also known as AJAX,
websites became truly interactive
like desktop user interfaces.
RESTful web services significantly reduce
multi machine communication complexity.
What makes them my game changers?
Better features, less coding
which is why I also consider Spring Data,
and specifically Spring Data JPA,
as a game changer.
While JPA is great, it still requires repetitive
boilerplate code and heavy lifting to make it bug free.
Let's look at some coding examples using just JPA.
This Create example is pretty straightforward.
We inject the EntityManager, start a new transaction,
instantiate a new student, persist it,
commit the transaction, and call close.
Forgetting to commit the transaction
or close the EntityManager are common mistakes.
Update is similar to Create except that we must look
up the entity first.
There are the same pitfalls as Create
plus the find method requires the entity class type,
student, which just looks messy.
To delete an entity, we invoke the remove method
on the EntityManager.
It has the same issues as Create and Update.
Finally let's invoke a JPQL query.
This code is very messy.
It's awkward passing in the entity class type
to create a query object
and every parameter is set one at a time
and the query is not run until we invoke
get result list or get single result.
Worst of all, it's only after running this code
that problems are detected.
Possible problems are invalid JPQL syntax,
incorrect parameter cardinality,
or unmatched data types.
There has to be a better way.